---
description: >-
  How much space is available on this parcel for the ADU, ADU setbacks, and/or
  ADU parking?
---

# 1. Available Space

In all cases, we will need to assess parking requirements.

{% page-ref page="../../policy/parking-requirements/" %}

There is no field in the parcel data that reflects the number of on-site parking spaces, however, we could approximate this by dividing `sqm_pave` by an estimate of parking space size. If we're doing this, we need to evaluate parking spaces in each garage \(Attached, Detached, Basement.\) We could also just assume that every parcel will need additional parking spaces for the ADU. 

////

For ADU construction in Existing structures, we can assess the likelihood of construction with the following fields:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Existing Foundation-Attached" %}
**Is there room inside the principal dwelling for an ADU?**

Single-family homes **\(?\)** w/:

* Large Building SF:
  * Attributes:
    * Gross Building Area \(LPD\)
    * Finished Building Area \(LPD\)
  * Proposal:
    * Minimum: Per BR SF exceeds 150 SF \(min., legally\) + an extra 150 SF
    * Higher Scores:
* Large Building Height:
  * Attributes:
    * STORY\_HEIGHT
    * Number of Stairways: Not available
* More Rooms
  * Attributes:
    * Reported Rooms \(LPD\)
* More Bedrooms :
  * Attributes:

    * NUM\_BEDROOM 

    Proposal: 

    * How to address counts for MF buildings?
      * Per Unit or per GSF or per Lot Area
    * How to address blank values?
* More Bathrooms:
  * Attributes:
    * NUM\_BATH\_ 
      * How to address blank values?
    * NUM\_HALF\_BATH
      * How to address blank values?
* Percent Unfinished Area
* Presence of an Attic
  * Not available, but this could be approximated through the ROOF field \(Null, Flat, versus other types: Bow, Gable, etc.\)
* Presence of a Basement:
  * Attributes: 
    * Y/N Basement \(Could infer\)
    * Basement\_Area
    * Basement\_Garage
    * Fin\_Basement
  * Increased potential w/ non-garage basement. Is there a difference for a finished basement?
* Presence of an Attached Garage:
  * Attributes:
    * Y/N Attached Garage \(Could infer\)
    * ATT\_GARAGE \(SF\)
      * More in line with actual SF values, but there are at least 20 parcels with garages less than 100SF.
    * BSMT\_GARAGE \(SF\)
      * 502 parcels have a value of 1
      * 641 parcels have a value of 2
      * 46 parcels have a value of 3
      * Other values are 4, 5, 42
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Existing Foundation-Detached" %}
**Is there an existing structure on site to which an ADU could be inserted?**

Single-family homes **\(?\)** w/:

* Multiple buildings \(NUM\_BUILD\)
  * jk, this field is useless.
  * Backup plan: Add in structures from MassGIS, calculate SF and centroids, and count?
* Building Type
  * Building Type 1
  * Building Type 2
  * Building Type 3
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="New-Attached" %}
Apart from the ADU buffers, is this technically different than the process for "New-Detached"?
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="New-Detached" %}
**Is there room on the site an ADU?**
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}



